Introduction
On 1996, HIPPA which stands for Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act was created.  The bill was at first supported by Senator Edward Kennedy and Senator Nancy Kassebaum. There are two main titles which make up the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act.  When a person chooses to join a health insurance plan it depends a lot if they are unemployed, self-employed, working in a small organization, or working a large organization.  There are two popular chooses of which are individual and group health plans in which exists in the private sector.  There are two national health insurance plans for non-military people who have Medicaid and Medicare.  If a person is unemployed they could try to get state insurance.  If a person is self-employed it is likely that they will get the individual health insurance plan.  If the person works in a corporation it is likely that they will get the group health insurance plan.  Concerning the cost of health insurance coverage policies, individual and small group plan tend to be more expensive than large group plans.  
Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act regulates group insurance plans which are designed to protect employees of unfair treatment.  It makes sure that everyone in the organization is given health insurance regardless of their medical status or past medical issue.  HIPAA also regulates the waiting period the person waits to obtain the health plan to make sure they have continuous health insurance coverage and makes sure that they have health insurance even when they lose their job. Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act makes sure that health insurance is not denied to those people in need or have pre-existing conditions.  A pre-existing is defined person with an existing condition or a behavior like smoking which is a risk that the insurance provider must decide to accept or decline.  Having a pre-existing condition can have a negative effect on the person by them being excluded of any health insurance. The first title makes sure that individual and group health insurance plans are portable and available to people.   Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act does not guarantee that the person will obtain a health plan via individual and group health insurance plans nor does it force the employer to provide health insurance coverage to its employees.  
The second title of Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act makes rules on how covered entities should act and tries to increase the administrative effectiveness of the covered entities.  It also prevents any health care fraud and health care abuse by both the people who use the medical services and those who provide the medical services.  It helps prevents health care fraud and health care abuse by having civil and criminal penalties for those who break the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act title II rules.  The title II set of rules also provides standards for electronic transitions, the Security Rule, the Enforcement Rule, the Unique Identifiers Standards, and the Privacy Rule.  As time passed Transactions and Code Sets Rule, Final Rule on Security Standards, Electronic Protected Health Information, and Health Information Technology for Economic and Clinical Health Act (HITECH Act) were added to the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act.
HIPPA Administrative Simplification Statute
	The Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act Administrative Simplification Statute were designed to improve the effectiveness and efficiency of the health care system in which many people depend on.  The Administrative Simplification part of the HIPAA requires the United States Department of Health & Human Services to set nation standards for unique health identifies, security, and electronic health care transactions.  With Administrative Simplification Statue it is easier to summit a claim.  There are over 400 different ways that a person can make a claim (1).  With Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act people will also be able to make electronic claims.  The administrative duties that employees that work in health care service will save time which will reduce the overhead cost of running a business.  The Standardization in which people submits claims will simplify the process which will results in people getting paid quicker and easier.  Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act will also help health care providers to take advantage of the newest technologies in the market in which it will result in an overall improvement of business practices and ethics.  Any electronic transaction that health care providers do must comply with the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act Electronic Data Interchange which concerns with the online transmission of medical health care data. HIPAA provides any business in health care or covered entity with a code set and identifiers.  
HIPAA Rules
The Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act Rules provide people protection from the federal government for personal electronic health information held by a covered entity.  The health information which is protected can include: health information about a person, billing information about a person at a clinic, information in health insurer’s database, health information which is in medical records, and any conversation with doctors about the care or treatment.  The covered entity secures the information by putting safeguards on the data and putting limits on the use of the data to get the minimum necessary data to accomplish task.  If covered entities have to give data to contractors or other entities they must make a contract to ensure that they use that data correctly and disclose the health data properly.  It is also in their best interest to safeguard the health information properly to ensure privacy is not compromised.  
A covered entity can be one of the following: health care provider, a health plan, or a health card clearinghouse.  A health care provider can be a doctor, clinic, psychologist, dentists, chiropractor, nursing homes, or pharmacies.  An entity which provides health plan can include health insurance companies, health maintenance organizations, company health plans, and federal government programs.  Federal government program are agencies that pay health care such as Medicare, Medicaid, Military care plans, and veterans care plans.  A health care clearinghouse can include any entity which processes nonstandard medical information which they receive from a different entity.  The nonstandard health data will be converted into a standard electronic format in which it makes it more compatible to many different entities.  The uncovered entity can include one of the following: schools, state agencies, life insurers, law enforcement agencies, and employers.  
Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act also gives the person certain privacy rights.  A person under the Act can ask to view, get a duplicate of the health records, and do correction on the health information to do changes in the health record.  The person has the right to have control over the health records in which they need to give permission to covered entities to be able to share their data for certain purposes.  When the person rights are not being followed and being denied, the person can file a complaint to either their health care provider or health insurer.  If the person feels that their health care provider or health insurer is not doing the complaint right they can file a complaint to the United States Government.  The right department of the United States Government in which a person must file the complaint is called the United States Department of Health & Human Services.  The United States Department of Health & Human Services strives to improve the health and safety of all people that live in the country.  



Privacy Rule
The Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act Privacy rule set a national standards in which individuals’ medical health records and other medical health information.  Those rules apply to any health care entity that handles medical records.  These rules also require that an entity have the safeguards to protect the privacy of health care data.  It also includes the entity sets limitation and conditions on the how the data will be use.  The HIPAA Privacy allows a person to request the right to correct any information in the medical health record which is not accurate.  
Security Rule
The Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act Privacy rule was design to protect a person’s health record by have the following 3 safeguards.  The 3 different types of safeguards are Administrative, Physical, and Technical. 
Enforcement Rule
The Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act Enforcement rule sets civil and criminal charges to those who violate HIPPA Rules.




 
Results
 
Figure1- Resolution by Year and Type

Case Study Ethical Analysis
Understanding the situation
Facts
1.	Lake Forest Hospital needed to comply with Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act 
2.	Before Lake Forest Hospital computer networks was did the network over it was unsecured
3.	The network administrators did not have control over who had access to the resources
4.	 Lake Forest Hospital is located in Illinois
5.	Morenzio had to meet the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act so that the hospital obtain federal funding 
6.	When the hospital was preparing for Y2K it had to be capable of logging data for the network devices.
7.	Move all networks into a single network which took 4 years

Ethical Value
1.	Privacy Laws
2.	Tracking everyone’s health data
3.	Access Control to the right people
4.	Employee training
